In this concept, we will talk and learn about
enums in solidity which are another complex types.
You can create your own custom types with a finite set of values using the word enum.
After the word enum,
like you see on the screen on the example,
then we have the name of the enumeration,
and then in curly brackets,
we will give the values.
Note, there is no semicolon in the end.
Now, enums are not a part of the ABI definition.
What that means is that the color of the contract when looking at
the ABI will not know if enums are defined in the contract.
So, now, the question is,
then how will we do or receive our path enumeration values in contract invocations?
For that, you will use the index assigned to the enum values.
In the example on the screen,
we are creating a transfer type enum.
It has two values inside it.
Domestic has an index of value zero,
and foreign has an index value of one.
So, now, if you wanted to access the first value,
then you can access it using index zero.
Now, in the line of code that stores the value of
TransferType.Domestic into the variable X, we will get an error.
We have to explicitly convert this to uint8 and then store in the variable X.
For invoking functions that require enumeration as argument,
we will need to provide an integer index value.
Now, let's look at a sample contract to understand enums better.
Now, the sample contract that we have on the screen is called contract EnumContract.
Again, remember, contract see lower,
and then we have the name of the contract,
you always try to use the capital letter for the first letter of the contract name.
In this contract, what we are doing in the global space,
we are creating enum,
and the name of the enum is names,
and then within curly brackets,
we are having four values, Joe,
Brandy, Rachna, and Jessica.
So, there are four values inside.
So, that means this is going to have index zero,
one, two, and three.
Now, like I mentioned and showed that to you in the last slide,
we just cannot get the values of zero,
one, and two, we have to convert it explicitly.
So, if you see in this function,
we are getting an argument,
and so what we're doing is that we are getting an argument
saying that we want to see what the value is at that specific index.
So, we're getting an argument that's probably going to be anywhere between zero to three,
and now it returns a string.
We're going to look up this enum based upon the argument that return the value.
So, what we're doing is that we're comparing the argument,
we're converting it explicitly.
So, for example, names.Joe.
That converge to zero and then so the argument is zero, then the returning Joe.
Now, if the argument is one, in that case,
we're getting names.Brandy, and then we're returning Brandy,
and then that's how it goes.
So, in fact, I'm going to show you in the side of my screen and see how this works.
So, let's go deploy this contract.
So, again, I'm using mainly remix editor,
we're going to go deploy this contract,
and I'm in the JavaScript virtual machine that is in
browser network that is running in my browser right now.
So, I'm going to deploy this contract.
Once you deploy this contract,
you can click on this lower part.
Okay. So, if you see, these are the specific values.
So, now, we have this function getNames.
Let me zoom in just a little bit so you can see a little bit better.
Okay. So, I'm going to pass in.
Let's try passing an argument zero and then click on the function name.
So, it gives me Joe back.
So, if we see, the first element was zero,
the first value is zero.
So, now, let's try passing three,
and we get a value of Jessica.
So, that is how enums work in solidity. Pretty simple.
All they are is custom type that you're creating with values inside it.